# Reading 33 - Context API

## Review, Research, and Discussion

1. **Describe use cases for ```useMemo()``` and ```useReducer()```** The ```useMemo()``` hook is often used to optimize when doing expensive calculations while rendering. ```userReducer()``` can be used for managing state objects that contain multiple sub-values. UseReducer is an alternative to useState, usually preferable when you have complex state logic that involves multiple sub-values or when the next state depends on the previous one. Also lsets you optimize performance for components that trigger deep updates because you can pass dispatch down instead of callbacks. (source: [Hooks reference docs](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html))
1. **Why do custom hooks need the use prefix?** Should start with use so that you can tell at a glance that the rules of Hooks apply to it. (source: [Hooks docs](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-custom.html))
1. **What do custom hooks usually do?** Allow you to extract and share logic in a way that was not possible with class components.
1. **Using any list of custom hooks, research and name one that you think will be useful in your applications.** The useDocumentTitle custom hook seems like it could be helpful in updating the page title/browser tab. (source: [Medium](https://blog.bitsrc.io/11-useful-custom-react-hooks-for-your-next-app-c66307cf0f0c))
1. **Describe how a hook that fetches API data might work** ```useEffect``` can make a network requeset on component render, when the fetch resolves, it can set the response from the server to the local state using the ```setState``` function, which will cause the component to render to update the DOM with the data. (source: [Medium](https://blog.bitsrc.io/fetching-data-in-react-using-hooks-c6fdd71cb24a))

## Vocabulary Terms

- **Reducer**: Will always return only one value, that value can be a number, string, an array, or an object. Great for applying a bit of logic to a group of values and ending up with another single result. Reducers will not mutate your initial value, rather they return something else. (source: [CSS Tricks - Understanding Reducer](https://css-tricks.com/understanding-the-almighty-reducer/))

[<==Back>](../README.md)
