# Reading 14 - Event Driven Architecture

## Review, Research, and Discussion

1. What’s the difference between a FIFO and a standard queue? FIFO queues have essentially the same features as standard queues, but provide the added beneifts of supporting ordering and exactly-once processing. FIFO queues provide additional features that help prevent uninentional duplicates from being sent by message producers or from being received by message consumers. (source: [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2016/11/amazon-sqs-introduces-fifo-queues-with-exactly-once-processing-and-lower-prices-for-standard-queues/))
1. How can the server be assured a message was properly received? If it receives a confirmation message back from the client.
1. What classic design pattern is best represented by event driven programming? observer pattern is a software design pattern in which an object (named the subject) maintains a list of its dependents (observers), and notifies them automatically of any state changes, usually by calling one of their methods
1. How do you test an event driven system? Unit tests, as well as checking console logs.

## Vocabulary Terms

- FIFO Queue: queues designed to enhance messaging between applications when the order of operations and events is critical or where duplicates can't be tolerated (source: [AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/FIFO-queues.html))
  - examples are: making sure user-entered commands are run in the right order, displaying correct product price by sending price modifications in the right order, preventing student from enrolling in a course before registering for an account
- Pub/Sub: asynchronous messaging service that decouples services that produce events from services that process events (source: [Google Cloud Docs](https://cloud.google.com/pubsub/docs/overview)). From Wikipedia: messaging pattern where senders of messages, called publishers, do not program the messages to be sent directly to specific receivers, called subscribers

[<==Back>](../README.md)
